
DBF2TSV provides two Unix command line programs, dbf2tsv and tsv2dbf.

1. dbf2tsv

dbf2tsv will convert a dBase/xBase database file to a Tab-Separated
Value (TSV) file.  The TSV file is written on stdout.  The command
line is:

   dbf2tsv dbf-filename

2. tsv2dbf

tsv2dbf will create a dBase/xBase file from a Tab-Separated Value
(TSV) file.  The input may have a maximum of 30 tab-separated values
per line, with a maximum value length of 4096 bytes and a maximum line
length of 4096 bytes.  The lines in the file must be terminated,
Unix-style, by line-feeds.  The first line in the file gives the
tab-separated field names. These are truncated to 10 bytes in the
output DBF. The remaining lines of the input are data rows giving the
tab-separated field values. The number of fields on a data row must
agree with the number of fields given on the header row -- otherwise
the data row is ignored.  The command line for tsv2dbf is:

   tsv2dbf tsv-filename dbf-filename

3. Build

Build the package as follows:

   cd <source-dir> 
   make

The utilities have been successfully built and tested with gcc version
4.6.0 on a Linux Fedora 15 32-bit system.

4. Limitations

The TSV format accepted by tsv2dbf and output by dbf2tsv is
simplified.  In particular, quote marks (") are not special, and tabs
may not be included in values by surrounding the values by quotes.
Thus, tabs are always considered to be field separators.

The TSV files are assumed to be ASCII. Multi-byte characters are not
supported.  Giving tsv2dbf an input file with multi-byte, non-ASCII,
characters would most likely produce something unexpected, possibly 
without warning.

5. Performance

On a 2.27GHz desktop-class PC with 7GB of memory running Linux,
tsv2dbf processes about 370K non-null values per second, and dbf2tsv,
about 1.3M non-null values per second. Both are mainly constrained by
the disk I/O.

6. Shapelib Acknowledgement

The source files dbf.c and dbf.h are adapted from the shapelib
library. (See http://shapelib.maptools.org/) Shapelib is a library
designed for handling geographic data in xBase format files.  I have
moved all the shapelib code related to xBase file handling into dbf.c
and dbf.h, reformatted it somewhat, and removed the rest of the
shapelib code. dbf.c and dbf.h carry the copyright notice and MIT-like
license notice from shapelib's original author, Frank Warmerdam.
Frank's code does all the real work in this package.

I am the author of the rest of the code.  I have placed it into the
public domain, as it is almost a trivial addition to the shapelib code
(though probably not trivial enough to be without bugs).


Brian Mottershead (brian at mottershead.us) 
February 5, 2012

